.TH BARNOWL 1 "24 Jun 2011"
.SH NAME
BarnOwl \- tty\(hybased zephyr client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B barnowl
[\-n]
[\-d]
[\-D]
[\-v]
[\-h]
[\-c \fICONFIGFILE\fP]
[\-t \fITTY\fP]
[\-s \fICONFIGDIR\fP]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B BarnOwl
is a fully integrated tty\(hybased instant messaging client.  Currently
it supports AOL Instant Messenger, MIT Zephyr, Jabber, IRC, and Twitter.  It is
curses\(hybased, allows for emacs\(hystyle editing of outgoing messages, and
uses Perl as an extension and configuration language.  \fBBarnOwl\fP will
also run happily without a configuration file.

Once \fBBarnOwl\fP is started, typing \(oqh\(cq will display a help screen.
Typing \(oq:\(cq enters command mode, allowing the user to type a \fBBarnOwl\fP
command line.

.SH OPTIONS
The following command\-line options are avilable when running \fBBarnOwl\fP:
.TP
\fB\-n\fP, \fB\-\-no\-subs\fP
Do not subscribe to zephyr messages on startup.  By default, \fBBarnOwl\fP
subscribes to the default subscriptions and to anything found in
\fI~/.zephyr.subs\fP.  When this option is used, no subscriptions are loaded.

.TP
\fB\-c\fP, \fB\-\-config\-file\fP=\fIFILE\fP
Specify an alternate config file for \fBBarnOwl\fP to use.  The config file is
an arbitrary Perl script evaluated in the \fImain\fP package, and if it
overrides the \fIBarnOwl::startup\fP method that is run when \fBBarnOwl\fP
starts.  (Compare \fI~/.owl/startup\fP, which contains \fBBarnOwl\fP commands
that are run at startup after the config file is loaded.)

By default, \fBBarnOwl\fP uses the first of \fI~/.owl/init.pl\fP,
\fI~/.barnowlconf\fP, or \fI~/.owlconf\fP that exists.

.TP
\fB\-s\fP, \fB\-\-config\-dir\fP=\fIDIR\fP
Specify an alternate configuration directory.  By default, \fBBarnOwl\fP uses
\fI~/.owl/\fP.

.TP
\fB\-t\fP, \fB\-\-tty\fP=\fITTY\fP
Specify the tty name to use for the zephyr location.

.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-\-version\fP
Print the version number of \fBBarnOwl\fP and exit.

.TP
\fB\-d\fP, \fB\-\-debug\fP
Enable debugging.  By default, debugging information is placed in
\fI/var/tmp/barnowl\-debug.PID\fP.

.TP
\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-\-help\fP
Print command\(hyline option help.

.SH AUTHORS
Written by Nelson Elhage and Alejandro Sedeno at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.  Based on Owl by James Kretchmar.

Comments, questions, and bug reports may be mailed to
\fBbug\-barnowl@mit.edu\fP.
